>> [BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>> People are basically going
to keep on to help uncover what
really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>> NARRATOR: And now the host
of the nationally syndicated
"Coast to Coast AM" and Gaiam
TV bring you "Beyond Belief"
with George Noory.
>> GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief,"
and do we have a wonderful
program for you in store
tonight.
You know, since I
was a little boy,
I was fascinated
with the possibility
that we were being visited
by extraterrestrials.
That out in this universe,
this vast universe, there
were planets with other
beings living on it.
I was just mesmerized
by these possibilities.
And our special guest tonight
had that same feeling.
It's a passion that has
driven him to seek out
these questions--
are we being visited?
Is there a life beyond
just planet Earth?
He's a former
nuclear physicist, I
call him the Father
of Modern Day Ufology.
Ladies and gentleman, let's
welcome Stanton Friedman.
Stan.
How are you, my friend?
Good to see you.
Stan Friedman, back in 1971, was
my very first radio interview
ever.
My news director at the time,
John Webster, great guy,
I said, John, I want
to go cover this guy.
He's coming in to
talk to some engineers
and he's going to talk
at a college about UFOs.
And John said, no,
George, come on.
We want hard news,
murders, fires.
And I said, no, I'm going.
So I went on my own, and it
was the greatest interview
I ever did back in 1971.
And Stanton still remains
a great guest to this day.
Where did this passion
come from, my friend?
>> STANTON FRIEDMAN: It
goes with the territory.
I worked on far out stuff
only, nuclear rockets,
nuclear airplanes, nuclear
powered planes for space,
stuff like that.
And I found that I
had a passion for it.
I read science fiction when I
was a kid and gave up on it,
the science was much
more interesting.
And when I found that people
were interested in what
I had to say and would turn
out in droves and stuff,
I was hooked.
I like being on the stage.
I'm a Leo, you know,
one of those guys.
Me and Benito Mussolini born on
July 29, Peter Jennings, too.
And what I found was,
it gave me a chance
to put together the crazy
aspects of my background.
Working under security for
14 years, that was one thing.
Working on far out
propulsion systems.
>> NOORY: That's right.
>> FRIEDMAN: One of
the big arguments is,
you can't get here from there.
That's from the nasty, noisy
negativists, as I call them.
Another thing that drove
me was this business
of keeping secrets.
The public is simply not
aware of how many secrets
are being kept, how much money
is being spent on black budget
stuff.
And I think they're
entitled to know that.
And then there's all
the implications.
Where do we go from
here if we're not alone?
And I like to take
people down a peg,
when they're beyond what
they were able to do.
And all the people who say
there's nothing to UFOs,
you can't get here from there,
governments can't keep secrets,
all this stupid stuff-- I
enjoy being able to show,
here are the facts,
here's the data.
And I abide by one
rule, George, you
shouldn't open your
mouth as a scientist
until you have data in hand.
Now that's not a
commonly practiced rule.
Everybody thinks
everybody is entitled
to an opinion about everything.
And people say, you must
get a hard time, George.
Or to me they say.
And I say look, over 700
lectures I've had 11 hecklers,
and two of them were drunk.
And I'm told you'll get
more than that if you
talk about sports,
religion, politics.
I mean, I don't
talk about things.
>> NOORY: And of those nine
hecklers, how many were plants?
You know?
>> FRIEDMAN: I don't know.
But the audience
took care of them.
>> NOORY: Good
>> FRIEDMAN: I worried the first
year I spoke that somebody is
going to want to know something
I know nothing about and make
me look like a damn fool.
I haven't worried
since that first year.
And also I find that
audiences are really decent.
They give you a chance.
I had a guy interrupt
me three times
and somebody in
the audience says,
we came here to
here Mr. Friedman.
If you could have seen
the look on his face.
He thought everybody
was with him.
They weren't.
>> NOORY: That's right.
>> FRIEDMAN: So I don't
worry about it anymore.
I enjoy myself.
And it's forced me to
think about a lot of things
that, as a nuclear
physicist, I probably
wouldn't have thought of.
Motivation of people-- why
would aliens come to this place?
They didn't come here to be on
your show, as far as I know.
>> NOORY: That's right.
Not yet.
>> FRIEDMAN: Not yet.
Yes, I'll see what
I can do, George.
>> NOORY: That's right.
>> FRIEDMAN: But it has
forced me to think about a lot
of things that I otherwise
wouldn't have thought about.
So it's been a ball.
And you know, I gave my
first lecture in '67.
That's a long time ago.
>> NOORY: It is a long time.
I met you '71, four
years after that.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah,
but, of course,
you were a young guy
and I'm an old guy.
>> NOORY: Yeah,
but you know what?
You look the same.
You have not changed since 1971.
You're ageless.
>> FRIEDMAN: The hair is grayer.
>> NOORY: I'm beginning to
wonder if you're not an alien.
>> FRIEDMAN: Well, I
live in Canada, George.
Will that do?
>> NOORY: Well, in 1970, there
was a tremendous interest
in UFOs.
Do you find that's
still the case now?
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah, It's a
different kind of interest.
Because of the
internet, people don't
need to admit publicly
that they're interested.
They can go at home,
on the internet.
>> NOORY: They do their thing.
That's right.
>> FRIEDMAN: But I
still get great crowds.
I'm not bragging
there, I'm just saying
that people turn out
for the programs.
And what-- I'm in Roswell
just about every year,
because I'm the original
civilian investigator
of the Roswell incident.
They're turning out
there by the thousands.
So I know that the
interest is there.
I still do a lot
of radio interviews
where I don't, even for your
show, I mean 2:00 to 6:00
in the morning where I live
is not my best time of day.
>> NOORY: But you
still have the energy.
>> FRIEDMAN: But I
do have the energy.
Of course, I can do it in
my pajamas and bathrobe,
which is kind of nice.
This is not a bathrobe.
>> NOORY: Stan did a debate
with Seth Shostak from SETI.
And we'll talk about that
later on in the program, where
you annihilated him, based
on the public vote on that.
But this belief system in
UFOs is still strong now.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah,
people are interested.
There are more believers
than non-believers.
People think I must get a
hard time wherever I go.
I don't.
I find that people
are interested.
And when they know
what my viewpoint is,
they're not afraid to talk.
Look, at the end of most of
my lectures, George, some
to as many as 2,000 people,
I will ask my audiences.
I say, I get the first question.
How many of you
believe that you have
seen what I would consider
to be a flying saucer?
I've defined my terms earlier.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> NOORY: Just raise your
hand and I just want to point
and count.
And so the hands go up.
Each one afraid this
he's the only one.
And I go, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
By the time I get
over here, the hands
go up vigorously,
because they realize
they're not the only ones.
Typically, it's
10% of the crowd,
which is a lot of people.
>> NOORY: That is
a lot of people.
>> FRIEDMAN: And then I ask, how
many of you reported what you
saw?
90% of the hands go down.
And I ask, if there's still
people left, I'll say,
how many of you were in
the military at the time?
And if there's still
some people I'll say,
do want to tell us about it?
Get some great responses.
One guy, in front of 1,300
people said, I can't.
They told me not
to say anything.
Another guy, in Indianapolis
said, they took my pictures.
You want the rest of
the story, you know.
And he's sitting there.
And I say, look, you
don't need to stand up.
I'm not asking your name.
But I'm sure the
audience would like
to hear the rest of the story.
I mean, he was in the military.
He had had a sighting.
And they he had pictures.
>> NOORY: They
confiscated his pictures.
>> FRIEDMAN: So I
said, tell us about.
Well, he's flying a four engine
aircraft over the Pacific.
Get a call from a
plane 20 miles ahead.
There's a saucer
heading their way.
They had gun cameras.
They took pictures.
They called the base to
which they were going.
They don't handle the film.
Pilots don't take film to the
drug store to get it looked at,
you know.
>> NOORY: You just hand it over.
>> FRIEDMAN: It gets taken.
>> NOORY: Yeah.
>> FRIEDMAN: And they got
debriefed and told never to say
anything.
And I'm sure everybody in the
audience believed the guy.
He was obviously sincere.
He didn't know I was going to go
through this routine and stuff.
So I have a big feedback loop.
Everywhere I go people
have had sightings
that they haven't reported.
>> NOORY: Did the same thing
happened with Gordon Cooper,
the former astronaut,
the late astronaut?
He saw a series of UFOs.
They took pictures.
And they confiscated them.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah, that's
when he was in California.
He also had a sighting when
he was flying in Europe.
Couldn't get as high
as the saucer went.
A bunch of them were up.
And so, what do you do
with guys like that?
Do you say you
don't believe them?
Well, they're only an
astronaut, after all.
>> NOORY: Yeah.
>> FRIEDMAN: I was very pleased
that the forward to my book,
"Flying Saucers and Science"
was written by the sixth man
to walk on the moon.
And that was a vote of
approval, if you will.
The science, one of the things
that got me really going,
George, was when I started to
talk to professional groups.
And it was their
enthusiastic response.
I was still a young guy then.
When the Engineering
Society of Detroit
is sold out three
weeks in advance
for 1,008 people for
dinner and a talk,
and there are no
negative questions--
>> NOORY: Exactly.
>> FRIEDMAN: --that reaches you.
I can't say those people
don't know anything.
Why should I pay attention?
And I've talked to so
many professional groups,
engineering societies,
sections of the American
Institute of Aeronautics
and Astronautics.
Los Alamos Lab had
500 people there
to a meeting of the local
American Nuclear Society
chapter.
No negative questions.
I have to respect that.
I'm saying something
to a lot of people
want to hear, apparently.
>> NOORY: That's huge.
>> FRIEDMAN: For me it has been.
So yeah, my ego is,
yeah, I'm the Leo
who likes being on the stage.
But I do feel that I'm filling
a public service, George.
I'm educating.
I'm stimulating.
And the usual
response, when people
ask me the why questions,
why would aliens come here?
Why don't they land on
the White House lawn?
The usual response
is, oh I hadn't
thought of it that way before.
That's exactly the
response I want.
I want people to
do some thinking.
It's a subject that
requires a lot of thought.
>> NOORY: It sure does.
Edgar Mitchell.
>> FRIEDMAN: Edgar
Mitchell, yes.
>> NOORY: Your friend.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yes.
>> NOORY: Great astronaut, a
believer in extraterrestrial
life.
He has told you, he
has told me that he
has been told by higher ups that
this planet is being visited.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yes.
>> NOORY: You were one of the
first to unravel the Roswell
story of 1947.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah.
>> NOORY: Tell us a little
bit about what happened there,
Stan.
>> FRIEDMAN: Well, I can
tell you what happened there,
based on the testimony
of the people I talked
to, and the newspaper articles,
and all that sort of stuff.
Apparently, a saucer
exploded in midair
out in the middle of nowhere.
New Mexico has a lot
of nowhere, George.
>> NOORY: A lot of nowhere.
>> FRIEDMAN: And a rancher
discovered wreckage.
His sheep wouldn't cross the
wreckage, the debris field.
That's what worried him.
>> NOORY: That's smart.
>> FRIEDMAN: They got to
go to where the water is,
and it gets pretty
hot in New Mexico.
So he goes into the
little town of Corona.
He's telling the guys at the
bar there, it's a general store,
everybody knows everybody.
He hadn't heard anything
about flying saucers.
The people there had.
He didn't have a radio,
didn't have electricity.
And he's telling them about
this wreckage over his land.
And they're saying,
well, you know
they're offering a reward
for money for wreckage
from one of these
flying saucers.
That was a surprise.
>> NOORY: That was it.
Bingo.
>> FRIEDMAN: So
he, the next day,
drove into Roswell and with
some of the wreckage went
to the Sheriff's office
looking for the reward.
And the Sheriff called the base.
The base was the most unique
military group in the world.
It was home of the only
atomic bombers, the 509s.
They dropped the bombs on
Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
This wasn't a bunch of
guys who had nothing to do
but make up stories, you know.
And so the Sheriff,
by pre-arrangement,
called the base,
Roswell Army Airfield,
talked to the base intelligence
officer, Major Jesse Marcel.
He says, there's a
rancher here who's
got some weird stuff
that he brought in here.
And Major Marcel talks to
the boss, Colonel Blanchard.
He says, go check it out.
He does.
He looks at this stuff.
I was the first
guy to talk to him
in even 1978, all
those years later.
He says, there wasn't
anything conventional
in what he brought in there.
He talks to the colonel.
The colonel says, take one of
our Counter Intelligence Corps
guys with you.
He was worried about spies.
Because of all the classified
work going on in New Mexico.
It's where we were
testing the rockets.
>> NOORY: Sure.
And they had no idea what
this was at the time.
>> FRIEDMAN: No, no idea.
So they followed the
rancher out to his place.
No way to tell
anybody because it's
out in the middle of nowhere.
They spend overnight
in their sleeping bags.
The next day, they
see the debris field.
Area many hundreds of
yards long, 100 yards wide,
strewn with pieces of
small strange stuff.
Nothing conventional.
>> NOORY: Was
there anything big?
>> FRIEDMAN: No.
No, that was the thing.
>> NOORY: This thing just, like
it was exploded or something.
>> FRIEDMAN: Well, that's what
Jesse told me in our first
conversation.
It had to have
exploded up above.
Because he had
seen plane crashes.
When an airplane
goes in, it makes
of a big hole in the ground.
>> NOORY: That's right.
>> FRIEDMAN: And it
doesn't cover a huge area.
This stuff, this thing had
to explode above the ground
and covered a huge area.
So they brought back some
of the stuff to town.
He did stop at his home
on the way to the base,
showed is 11-year-old
son, who was
a colonel from the military--
became one, not at 11.
A medical doctor,
flight surgeon.
>> NOORY: And a believer?
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah.
He handled pieces
of the wreckage.
I mean, an only child.
His dad brings this stuff in.
Next day at the
base, the colonel
tells Jesse, get one of
our B-29s to take you
and this stuff to our
headquarters in Fort Worth,
Texas on your way to Wright
Patterson Air Force Base,
which is where captured enemy
equipment goes, anything
strange.
If a Russian airplane
crashed on American soil,
it would go to Wright Patterson.
And everybody follows orders.
He tells the base public
information officer, Walter
Haut, put out a
press release saying
we have now recovered one
of these flying saucers
that people have been seeing.
The first big sighting
was two weeks earlier,
Kenneth Arnold sighting,
up in a Pacific Northwest.
So everybody follows orders.
Jesse gets to Fort Worth, Texas.
General Ramey, Colonel
Blanchard's boss,
the head of the 8th Air
Force-- you don't say anything,
he says.
I'll take care of it.
He brings in the wreckage of
a radar reflector, weather
balloon combination.
Tells the press-- everybody is
going crazy, because you know.
>> NOORY: Oh, they're
going nuts, yeah.
>> FRIEDMAN: This is the
culmination of two weeks
of weird stuff, sightings in
40 some states, et cetera.
Just a radar reflector,
weather balloon,
nothing to worry about.
The evening papers for that day
July 8, 1947, had the story.
The West Coast papers
had both stories.
General Says it's
Radar Weather Gadget.
And the next morning, Ramey
Empties Roswell Saucer.
And that was the end of that.
Now the reason, it's important
to realize that Blanchard sent
a Counter Intelligence
Corps guy with him,
he was worried about spies.
As it happens, we know
the Russians had spies.
>> NOORY: And again, they had
no idea what it was, right?
>> FRIEDMAN: No.
And even when they realized
it was something different,
people say, why didn't they
just go public with it?
What are you going to do?
This is 1947.
The war has only been
over for two years.
The Marshall Plan
was just starting.
Half of Europe was starving.
You're going to say,
well, we thought
you would like to
know that there
are alien invaders coming here.
We don't know where they're
from, what they want,
how they operate.
We don't know if they're
working with anybody here.
But what the heck, you can
handle that, can't you?
>> NOORY: "War of the Worlds"
happened 10 years before that.
People were panicking.
>> FRIEDMAN: They
couldn't do that.
And they also, obvious question,
how do the darn things work?
Wouldn't it be great if
we could build things?
Because the sightings
already indicated
these things were
highly maneuverable.
Just what you would
want in an airplane.
>> NOORY: Stan, I want to talk
with you about the occupants
of these craft when we get our
audience, here, to participate,
as well.
Now let's take some questions
for Stanton Friedman.
And we'll get more into this
incredible story of Roswell.
Who's got a question about
extraterrestrial visitations
or UFOs?
Anybody?
Yes, sir.
>> AUDIENCE: Have you heard
about the sightings in Denver?
And is there anything to
it, to your knowledge?
>> FRIEDMAN: Well, I'll
tell you one thing.
There are far more sightings
than most people believe.
The Mutual UFO Network, which
used to be headquartered here
in Colorado, incidentally,
gets over 600 reports a month
of sightings.
So I haven't heard about
anything in particular,
but it wouldn't surprise
me if everywhere I
go people can tell
me there have been
sightings in the
last few months.
I get some people
say, how come there
haven't been any
sightings this year?
600 a month is a
lot of sightings.
>> NOORY: That is
a lot of sightings.
>> FRIEDMAN: I don't
have an answer for you.
I don't know what it was.
>> NOORY: Stan, isn't this also
where the Condon Report came
out?
>> FRIEDMAN: University
of Colorado, Boulder.
>> NOORY: Knocking down
Project Blue Book and the UFOs.
>> FRIEDMAN: Well, Dr. Condon,
he was a fine scientist,
said a lot of stupid
things in his report.
Didn't take the
subject seriously.
He had already made up is mind,
if you look at the comments he
made during the year-long
course of the story,
he had already made up his mind.
Chances are 1 in 10,000
anybody could get here.
Nobody will be coming
here for 10,000 years.
No basis given for these.
He was old school,
and that was it.
Don't bother me with-- there are
four basic rules for debunkers,
George.
Don't bother me with the
facts, my mind's made up.
What the public doesn't know,
I'm not going to tell them.
If you can't attack the data,
attack to people, it's easier.
And do your research
by proclamation.
It's easy to say
there is no evidence.
You don't need to do
anything to back that up.
You don't have to
provide anything,
because there isn't
anything to provide.
Those are all nonsense, frankly.
>> NOORY: Let's take another
question for Stan Friedman.
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah, what's
your definition of a UFO?
>> FRIEDMAN: Got to be a
little careful with that.
My lectures were normally
flying saucers are real,
because I'm interested in
flying saucers, not in UFOs.
All flying saucer's
are UFOs, very few UFOs
are flying saucers.
So something that's unidentified
to the observer is a UFO.
What I'm interested
in are the ones
that remain unidentified
after investigation
by competent investigators.
And one of the things I do in my
lecture, it's a little sneaky,
I talk about five large scale
scientific studies, show slides
and stuff.
And then I ask, how many
people here have read this?
And I'm lucky if it's 2%
who have read any of them.
So I know that people haven't
looked at the evidence.
And it's never the nasty, noisy
negativists who have read them.
So yes, most sightings
can be explained.
That's about as useful as
saying most isotopes aren't
fissionable.
And most people aren't
seven feet tall.
Tell that to the
basketball coach.
Yeah, I know, maybe 1 in 1,000.
Give me that guy.
I don't care about the
midgets of the world.
So yes, most sightings
can be explained.
The biggest study
ever done, 21 and 1/2%
of 3,200 cases-- this was
done for the United States Air
Force-- 21 and 1/2%
could not be explained,
completely separate
from the ones
that were listed as
insufficient information.
That's the common excuse
from the debunkers.
Well, there just
wasn't enough data.
That's not true.
There is a separate
category for them.
So I try to get
rid of the myths.
Yes, most sightings
can be explained.
That's true.
It's irrelevant to
the question at hand.
Every large-scale
scientific study
finds a substantial number--
well, the University
of Colorado, as
a matter of fact.
A special UFO subcommittee
of the world's largest group
of space scientists,
the American Institute
of Aeronautics and
Astronautics, 30%, they said,
any phenomena with 30%
unknown is certainly worth
investigating.
They said that 30% of 117
cases looked at by the Condon
Committee could
not be explained.
So you can say, oh,
well they identified
70%, that's good enough.
No, it isn't.
>> NOORY: Even if one case
couldn't be explained, Stan,
it would be worth it.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah.
>> NOORY: Back to
Roswell for a moment.
Tell me about the occupants.
>> FRIEDMAN: Well, I
didn't see any of them.
The reports we have, and there
are occupant reports from all
over the world, let's face
it, in the abduction cases.
In the physical trace cases,
most people aren't aware,
a guy named Ted Phillips has
collected 4,000 of these cases
from 80 countries.
Where people see the saucer
on or near the ground,
and after it leaves, one
finds physical changes.
The equivalent of burn circles,
burn rings, landing gear marks.
1/6 of those cases
involve reports
of beings associated
with the craft.
>> NOORY: Either walking around.
>> FRIEDMAN: Walking
around, picking up plants,
digging up soil, whatever.
So what we can say
about the occupants,
and if you look at the
abduction cases as well,
they tend to be shorter than
we are to be humanoid in form.
That is two arms, two legs,
a head, and a body, two eyes.
You don't hear reports of beings
with three arms, or five eyes,
or anything like that.
Now I'm not saying everybody
out there is humanoid.
I'm saying the guys
who are coming here.
And maybe the ammonia
breathers go someplace
when they're picking
up specimens.
>> NOORY: Could they be robots?
>> FRIEDMAN: Well, they might
be cyborgs, more likely.
That is a combination of--
>> NOORY: Biological.
>> FRIEDMAN: Biological
and mechanical, yeah.
Look we're getting that.
>> NOORY: We're getting there.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah, you
know, artificial limbs,
people who run in races
that don't have any legs
of their own.
>> NOORY: I've got a friend
who's got a pig's valve.
I've got another friend who's
got a plastic aorta put in.
That's mechanical.
>> FRIEDMAN: Sure.
So the point is that,
they seem to be enough
like us to say that they're
not going to scare you out
of your wits because
they're terrible.
The movies have gone
a little bit overboard
with some of that stuff.
The occupants, if you take the
Betty and Barney Hill case.
>> NOORY: That was in New
Hampshire back in the '60s.
>> FRIEDMAN: New
Hampshire, 1961.
The beings, well, there
were two different types,
there seemed to be.
There were bigger
guys and littler guys.
The small grays, maybe 4 foot
tall, big heads, dark eyes,
skinny little guys.
They got good diet
control out there.
Maybe they can't
carry enough food.
Who knows what?
But they're not science
fiction monsters.
You know, what's an
earthling look like?
Well, obviously,
he has to have hair
on his face, right, George?
>> NOORY: That's right.
>> FRIEDMAN: Well, some of
them don't even have hair
on their heads, you know.
And the color of the skin.
People say, why would
aliens come here?
And I give them a
whole bunch of reasons.
I say, maybe it's the only
place in the neighborhood where
people have different color.
>> NOORY: That's right.
>> FRIEDMAN: And speak all
these different languages.
Maybe that's weird.
I mean, I'm saying this was
a penal colony at one time.
They dumped all the bad
boys and girls here.
And that's why we're
so nasty to each other.
>> NOORY: You might
be right about that.
>> FRIEDMAN: Well,
I've been to Australia.
And down there,
they're very proud
of their convict heritage.
That surprised me,
but, of course, these
were decent people who got in
debtor's prison, most of them.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> FRIEDMAN: But the
point is, we don't know.
But what's really happening
now, George, and I'm
giving a paper in a few weeks
about a new look at the cosmos.
Our understanding of our
role, we earthlings--
I think they're all
earthlings out there, George.
I don't know.
You didn't take IDs
when they came in.
>> NOORY: Could be one or two
ETs could be in this group.
>> FRIEDMAN: Our perception
of where we fit in the scheme
of things should change.
We used to think we're
in the top of the heap.
This the only solar system
in the whole universe.
Everything we do is the first
time it's ever been done
and the best, and all
this kind of stuff.
Now we realize, A, that there
are loads of planets out there.
We're talking billions,
here, not just a few.
We recognize that
gee, the Earth's
been around for 4 plus billion
years, and the universe maybe
10 billion years.
How can we imagine that with,
what, 120 years of technology--
pick a number, it
doesn't matter,
it's a short period
of time compared
to the lifespan of
a neighborhood--
that we could be
the most advanced?
And when you look at
the rate of change
of our knowledge
in my life span.
I mean, since 1900, the
nuclear world, the flight
world, the electronics
world, lasers, you name it.
>> NOORY: Huge difference.
>> FRIEDMAN: Biology,
it's all gone sky high.
Now are we to believe that
nobody got started out there
before we did on
any of these things?
That's an incredibly
arrogant belief system.
>> NOORY: And some of them had
billions of years ahead of us.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah.
And so, you know,
people say, well,
why don't they land on
the White House lawn?
That's one of those
stupid questions.
You know, the President--
I'm sure you're all aware
that the President
of the United States
does not speak for 7
billion earthlings.
He has trouble sleeping for 310
million Americans sometimes.
But the point is,
why do people travel?
It's not to have tea at the
White House, for most people.
And let me cut to the chase.
Why would anybody
come here anyway?
I make one assumption about
every advanced civilization.
It's concerned about its
own survival and security.
If it's not, it won't last.
That being the case,
you have to keep tabs
on the primitives
in the neighborhood.
But only close tabs on
those primitives that
show signs of being
able to bother you.
At the end of World War
II, there were three signs
that soon these
idiot earthlings--
I say that because we killed
50 million of our own kind
in World War II, 50 million,
we destroyed 1,700 cities, not
nice guys here-- but
three signs that soon
we would be able to take our
brand of friendship out there.
Nuclear weapons,
powerful radar, which
was the beginning of the
electronics revolution,
if you will, and powerful
rockets, the V2s,
which were being
used to kill people.
Isn't it interesting
that in July 1947,
the only place on the whole
planet where you could study
all three of those was
Southeastern New Mexico.
First atomic bomb, Trinity
site, I've been there,
on the grounds of the
White Sands Missile Range.
That's where we had our best
radar to track the rockets that
were also being tracked there.
I hate to say, but
sometimes the rockets
went south instead of north.
Mexicans weren't very
happy about that,
even though they didn't
have warheads on them.
So you had all three things.
And that's where Roswell is,
in case you're interested.
>> NOORY: How coincidental.
Of which, I don't
believe in coincidence.
>> FRIEDMAN: No, I don't
believe in coincidences either.
So what I'm saying here
is, in one of my papers
I list 20 reasons
for coming here.
They get a weekly show, George.
Idiocy in the boondocks on radio
out on Zeta Reticuli, you know.
But they may be stealing
goodies from here.
We're the only planet
in the solar system
covered with water, almost 3/4.
We are the densest planet
in the solar system.
I don't mean the people.
That's probably true, too.
But a cubic foot of Earth
weighs more than a cubic foot
of any of the other planets.
Yeah, any of the other planets.
And you say, so what?
Well there's certain metals
that are very dense metals, that
are going to be more here
than any other planets-- gold,
uranium, tungsten,
rhenium, osmium, platinum.
You think heavy is lead?
Rhenium is twice
as dense as lead.
These have very
special properties,
so they may have been
stealing the goodies.
I mean, look, gold, what's
the price of gold now?
$16.50 an ounce?
>> NOORY: It's huge.
It's huge.
>> FRIEDMAN: Something
ridiculous like that.
>> NOORY: They think
it could go to $5,000.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah.
You could afford to give a
little space to some gold,
if you have a rocket,
you know, to come here.
>> NOORY: But what about the
creatures on this planet, Stan?
I mean, would they
find the creatures
here so vast that it
would intrigue them?
>> FRIEDMAN: I think it's their
activities that would intrigue
them.
Oh, they may be
doing hybridization.
They may be stealing
genetic material.
You know, we sometimes
forget, if you
got a herd of prize cattle, they
may all have the same father.
But humans are differentiated
all over the place.
Only 1 in 10,000 has
hemophilia, for example.
You got to gather
a lot of specimens
to check out these
oddball genetic stuff.
But I think one
reason, if I were
to say one word that I think
is most likely for the reason
for being here, is
to quarantine us.
If you were an alien.
I don't think you would
want us out there.
We're not nice guys.
Do you realize that
this year, we earthlings
will spend $1 trillion
on things military,
while thousands of
children die needlessly
of preventable disease
and starvation every day.
How do we look to them?
You wouldn't want us out there.
And that leads to the
obvious next question.
Well, but we're not
a threat to them.
That's where my having worked
on far out propulsion systems
comes into the picture.
Can you get to the stars?
Not with a dumb old
chemical rocket.
Of course not.
How about fusion rockets?
There's an interesting sequence.
In 1944, a big bomb was
a 10 ton blockbuster,
that's what they were called.
It took a pretty good
size B-29 to carry it.
And we dropped a lot
of them in Europe,
and they make a nice
hole in the ground.
10 tons of TNT, you might say.
OK first, that was 1944.
In 1945, the first
atom bomb released
the energy of
18,000 tons of TNT.
'45.
Seven years later, our first
fusion device, an H-bomb,
10 million tons of TNT.
That's an enormous leap
in a short period of time.
I worked on a study of fusion
propulsion for deep space
travel, George, in the early
'60s, for goodness sakes.
>> NOORY: And explain what
that is, fusion propulsion.
>> FRIEDMAN: Well, here's
the interesting thing.
Everybody out there,
everywhere, is
going to be concerned about
fusion, because that's
the energy process
of all the stars.
These are nuclear reactions
that produce an enormous amount
of energy when the
conditions are right.
That's why H-bombs, 10
million tons of TNT.
Incidentally, the
Russians exploded
one that was 57 million tons of
TNT energy released equivalent.
So everybody out there
knows that fusion
is the main source of
energy in the universe.
That's how the stars work.
They also know that if
you're smart and want
to spend a lot of money, you can
build a nuclear fusion rocket
and kick particles out the
back end 10 million times
as much energy per
particle as they
can get in a dumb
old chemical rocket.
We know how to get to the stars.
Oh, it will take a big budget.
Look how much money it took to
build the first fission device,
an atomic bomb.
And you know what's
funny, George.
The Navy, not the
Air Force, the Navy
has pioneered in
using nuclear energy.
Nuclear submarines.
>> NOORY: Subs everywhere.
>> FRIEDMAN: First
one 1956, "Nautilus."
We now have aircraft
carriers, nuclear powered,
that can operate for more than
18 years without refueling.
>> NOORY: Isn't that amazing?
>> FRIEDMAN: That's incredible.
It's truly incredible.
And so we go through
this progression.
You want to go to the stars?
Don't use a dumb old chemical
rocket, go to fusion.
But you better have a good
reason for going to the stars
if you want to spend
all that money.
Incidentally, during World
War II, for fission, A-bombs,
we built secret facilities
in Oak Ridge, Tennessee
to separate isotopes of uranium.
We built a mile long
facility, one mile long,
and we used 5% of the
electrical power of the United
States, 5% of the whole
country's electrical power
to separate those
isotopes, in secret.
In secret!
As many as 50,000 people
worked on the program.
Most of them didn't
know that it had
anything to do with
nuclear weapons.
When the dial shows this,
you turn the screw that way,
that kind of thing.
But what I'm saying
is, when we are pushed,
we can accomplish a
great deal if we're
willing to devote the resources.
And we can do it in secret.
Now why the secret?
Because, you don't
want your opponents
to know what you know.
>> NOORY: Even though,
they're doing the same thing.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah.
Yeah.
Look, you don't want them
to know you they know, even.
On top of it.
So secrecy is a part of life.
And it would be interesting
to get the views of everybody
as to, what would happen if the
government made an announcement
tomorrow, the
queen and the pope,
well, I'd better rush
that up pretty quick.
>> NOORY: The new pope.
>> FRIEDMAN: The new
pope-- that indeed,
aliens are visiting Earth
and they're neutral.
What if that was
the announcement,
what would happen?
Church attendance would go up.
Mental hospital
admissions would go up.
Stock market would
go down, of course.
>> NOORY: Control would go down?
>> FRIEDMAN: I think the
younger generation, though,
would push for a new
view of ourselves.
Instead of as Americans,
Canadians, Brits,
Greeks, Peruvians, earthlings.
I mean, from an alien view
point, we are all earthlings.
>> NOORY: We are earthlings.
We're one.
>> FRIEDMAN: There are a lot of
governments on this planet that
don't want their citizens to
owe their primary allegiance
to the government of the planet.
Nationalism is the
only game in town.
I live in Canada.
Quebec wants its own country.
And there are other places
that want their own country.
People in power don't want
to lose power, George.
That's been my experience.
And I'm sure it's been yours.
>> NOORY: And that is so true.
>> FRIEDMAN: So there's some
serious things to think about
here.
But don't let anybody tell you,
you can't get here from there.
>> NOORY: Are they learning
how to bend space and time?
If we had two dots on this
piece of paper and fold it,
we're there.
Have they learned how to
go through a wormhole?
>> FRIEDMAN: Well, the display
I make is like this way.
Instead of going along
the diagonal, go this way.
I don't know, George.
The theoreticians are
doing their thing.
But governments
aren't big on theory.
They want bombs, not the theory
of bombs, you know what I mean.
So there's a lot
of talk about that.
You know, the
astrophysicist can get away
with all kinds of
theoretical stuff.
They don't need to
demonstrate anything.
When I worked in industry,
we had to make things work.
I mean, that's the
whole point of the game.
And it was kind of a game.
Look, I was working
on nuclear airplanes.
We operated jet engines
on nuclear power.
We don't have any flying nuclear
airplanes, as far as I know.
Unlimited range, that
would be kind of neat.
Change the engine every
few thousand hours,
that would be kind of neat.
Let me go back to that
aircraft carrier, though.
My vision of what's
going on-- we
have a number of reports
of huge mother-ships.
>> NOORY: A mile long.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah, a mile long,
that's a pretty good size.
Even if only have
1/2 a mile, George.
And we have a bunch of small
objects that come out of them.
People have seen them.
A perfect example is those
nuclear powered aircraft
carriers.
They carry 75 little
airplanes about 50 feet long,
which don't perform worth
a darn on the water.
Just that as the carrier
doesn't work well in the sky.
Three hours maybe,
without refueling
on an airplane, if
you're very lucky.
The carrier goes 18
years without refueling.
If you're going between
the stars, fusion is great.
Getting close to
the speed of light.
Speed of light
around this planet
doesn't do you much good.
You go around the planet
in 1/7 of a second.
How do meet somebody for dinner
if you're going that fast?
And it's an entirely
different environment.
The atmosphere causes
drag and heating
and all kinds of bad stuff.
So we have a direct analogy.
Case up in the Yukon, 32
witnesses, a civil engineer
looked at all the
data, put together
a triangulation picture.
6/10 to 1.2 miles long.
A case that Japan
Airlines flight,
747, this thing came up.
Went around them.
Twice the size of an
aircraft carrier they say.
>> NOORY: Sheesh.
>> FRIEDMAN: They talked
to the ground, radar guys.
They saw them and this UFO.
They got permission
to do a circle,
and this thing's
station kept with them,
kept at the same location.
Now the debunkers will
say, that was Jupiter.
Seen by the plane radar, mind
you, and the ground radar.
>> NOORY: Yeah, exactly.
>> FRIEDMAN: And station
keeping with an airplane going
in a circle.
How ludicrous can you get?
So it makes sense, in
other words, what we see.
I'd be surprised if there was
one system doing everything.
>> NOORY: Why are they following
planes, and things like that?
>> FRIEDMAN: I think
they want to know--
>> NOORY: What's
they're curiosity.
>> FRIEDMAN: --what
their capabilities are.
They want to know, not just
their flight capability,
but what electromagnetic
fields do they give out?
We certainly want
to know frequency
of the radar,
frequency of the radio,
if we're checking on aircraft.
Because we want to home
in with rockets, you know.
It's easier to kill guys if
you can pick them up and detect
them and use instrumentation
to do all the work,
instead of just eyeballing it.
>> NOORY: Is it true that
they sometimes take aircraft,
and we just don't hear
anything about them?
>> FRIEDMAN: Well, I've--
yeah, George, it is.
Take may not be quite right.
Maybe it's disintegrate.
But on seven different
occasions in the course
of my lecturing
all over the world,
I have been quietly
told, people weren't
looking for attention,
of airplanes going up
to chase UFOs and
not coming back.
And Frank Feschino's
book, "Shoot Them Down,"
in the first five
years of the '50s,
we lost over 200 military
airplanes, fatal crashes.
And the New York Times used
words like disintegrate.
>> NOORY: Chasing objects?
>> FRIEDMAN: Dissapeared.
Yeah.
And I've talked to
guys, I talk to one guy.
It turned out, he was stationed
at a base in South Carolina.
He was scrambled, Navy pilot,
at night, bogey coming in.
Scrambled him up.
He gets up.
Where is it?
He's talking to the
guy on the ground.
Well, he's coming
right up to you.
This thing comes up,
comes right at him.
Shines a very bright light.
He puts up his hand, he can
see the bones in his hand.
He's got to do something.
He pulls the
trigger on his guns.
Nothing happened.
The guns hadn't been loaded.
So he got back.
He's talking to the guys on the
ground while this is going on.
When he lands, he
gets interrogated
by two suits, and
some uniform guys.
They had apparently heard
something like this story
before.
And I've talked to this guy.
He went on to be a lawyer.
And he still was flying
for many years after that.
We agreed that probably the
only reason he was alive
is that his guns
hadn't been loaded.
They weren't hostile, in
other words, in general.
>> NOORY: Unless.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah, you
do something to them.
>> NOORY: Yeah, unless.
>> FRIEDMAN: And I've
got a bunch of stories.
Look, if I've heard
seven examples,
I'm sure there's a
lot more out there.
>> NOORY: I want to come
back with some of those.
But let's take a few more just
questions for Stanton Friedman,
here.
Yes, sir.
>> AUDIENCE: Can you speak a
bit more to like the theoretical
science behind the ability
to get here within time?
You talk about
fusion rockets being
able to propel you to a place.
But where there's likely
planets that would host life,
they're tens of
thousands, hundreds
of thousands, millions
of light years away.
So by the time they would--
>> FRIEDMAN: Whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa, wait.
Wait just a minute.
Why do you say that?
The galaxy is about
100,000 lightyears across.
Within 50 light years of here,
there's well over 1,000 stars.
You don't need to
go way out there.
There's planets
all over the place.
And that's the neat thing about
the Kepler Space Satellite.
I'm a real fan.
It's looking at an area of the
sky about as big as your first
at arm's length.
It's on an elongated orbit.
And it's finding planets
all over the place.
>> NOORY: All over,
just in that spot.
>> FRIEDMAN: Just there.
Incredible number.
So the place, my favorite
source for aliens,
if you will, from the--
it's in the book "Captured,
The Betty and Barney
Hill UFO Experience,"
the base stars in that
story-- it's a long story,
read the book--
but the base stars
are only 39.3 lightyears away.
But look at how different
they are from our situation.
Those two stars are only
an eighth of a lightyear
apart from each other.
They're 30 times
closer to each other
than the sun is to
the next star over.
We're out in the boonies.
Secondly, those two stars
are a billion years older
than the sun.
From a planet around one,
looking at the other,
you can directly observe
the other star all day long.
You can tell where there's
life around the planets,
because of the
biological effects
on the atmosphere
of those planets.
So you don't need to
talk about thousands,
hundreds of lightyears.
It just down the street,
around the corner.
So the situation is very
different from the way
we like to think of it as being.
There's maybe 200 billion
stars in the galaxy.
Nobody's counted them all,
but it's a number like that.
And a lot of them
just down the street.
>> AUDIENCE: I guess I'm
remembering very basic college
astronomy.
Nothing in advancement
or anything.
But the uniqueness of the Earth
being at a particular distance
with, like, X amount of
light and heat and energy
from the sun, is unique.
I mean, it's likely that
that exists elsewhere.
But the existence of
where we are with our sun
is very unique, within
a large time span.
I mean like, our Earth's
going to ceased to exist.
>> FRIEDMAN: The habitable
zone, as the astronomers,
the radio astronomers
like to talk about.
The funny thing is, we
have, because of Kepler,
found many multiple
planet star systems.
And no big deal.
There's another thing
that gets left out.
You see, the radio
astronomers, the SETI cultists,
as I call them, if you
want a nasty phrase,
they rule out colonization.
They rule out migration.
They rule out terraforming.
You know, if you were to go
to Las Vegas 200 years ago,
it wouldn't be a very
nice place to visit.
You would have trouble finding
a place to live, to eat,
you know, just
withstand the sun.
We terraformed it.
We made it suitable
for intelligent life.
Well, I'll put quotes
around the intelligent life.
But anyway, you see my point?
Every advanced
civilization is going
to know that it needs
to have a storm cellar.
Things happen.
An asteroid went by the
other day, probably connected
with it, although
they wouldn't say so,
what happened in
the Soviet Union.
Remember that meteor?
I don't know how many
people died, if any.
But there were a lot
of people injured,
a lot of buildings--
it made kind of a mess.
And I'm told by
a good astronomer
I know that the
two were connected.
There are asteroids that
have satellites around them.
They come in clusters.
So I think we have to expect
that aliens will know where
it's suitable for life, just as
we do now, and would know where
there is activity, because
of the signals they get.
And I suspect every
library in the neighborhood
can tell you where
there is civilizations.
And, oh, yeah, that
star over there is Sol.
Well, there are living,
thinking beings over there.
They're nasty son of guns.
You don't want to spend your
vacation over there, you know.
I think it's just as common for
aliens to be traipsing around,
as it is for us to
take airplanes to go,
you know, visit our girlfriend,
grandmother, grandchild,
whatever.
And if I had said that 150 years
ago, what would you have said?
Look how long it takes my horse
and wagon to go from point A
to point B.
>> NOORY: You can't
get there that fast.
>> FRIEDMAN: You can't
get there from here.
That's right.
Well, you can.
My basic rule,
technological progress
comes from doing
things differently
in an unpredictable way.
The future is not an
extrapolation of the past.
You have to change
how you do things.
I got a shock, I was
talking to college students
and relating how much times
have changed in my work life.
When I started work in industry,
I said, I used a slide rule.
I looked around the class.
Nobody batted an eye.
I said, any of you know
what a slide rule is?
Not one student in the class.
And that was less
than 50 years earlier.
So times change.
And your capabilities,
what you can do.
When the supersonic
transport was flying,
I'll bet there were guys or
gals that went from New York
to London to have a weekend with
their girlfriend or a boyfriend
and came back.
Well, you can't do that
if it takes you six weeks
to cross the ocean.
So we need to get rid of
our egos, our arrogance
and our ignorance.
Every direction
you look, progress
from doing things differently.
Moore's Law, I hope
everybody's heard
of Moore's Law, the
number of transistors
you can place on a
chip doubles every--
>> NOORY: Couple of years.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah, or a couple
of years, a year, two years.
That doesn't sound
like much when
you say how many times
have you doubled, whoops.
>> NOORY: It's
dramatic, dramatic.
>> FRIEDMAN: So now you got a
little chip this big that's got
a zillion transistors on
it-- the equivalent on it.
That's just within
recent life span.
So don't worry about them
being able-- their problem is
the choice of where do
they go for the weekend.
>> NOORY: Not how
do they get there.
>> FRIEDMAN: Not
can we go anywhere.
>> NOORY: We're going to
come back on "Beyond Belief"
and Stan will talk
about space exploration.
So don't go away.
[APPLAUSE]
>> NOORY: And welcome
back to "Beyond Belief"
with our special guest,
Stanton Friedman.
I notice you brought us
a little buddy, here.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah.
Somebody sent me that
about 20 years ago.
He had heard me on
a television show
and thought I'd
appreciate having--
he's pretty heavy to
carry in your briefcase,
to tell you the truth.
>> NOORY: So they look this way?
A lot of people have
described them like this.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah.
The important thing is humanoid.
You notice, two
eyes, they don't seem
to have much in the way
of lips or nostrils.
But humanoid.
Long fingers, you can see
there, if you look carefully.
>> NOORY: Why is
the head so big?
>> FRIEDMAN: More
brains, I guess.
That's a good reason as
any, as far as I know.
And there may be, look,
there may be a zillion
different civilizations
out there,
where they all look different.
And maybe they interact.
They have a convention
every 10 years.
Who knows?
But the idea is, we
have lots of reports
of people who have
been abducted,
who have seen these
physical trace cases,
where they see
these guys walking
around doing their thing.
Does Uncle Sam have specimens?
Well, there was
more than one crash.
You know, Roswell is one.
There's Aztec is another.
>> NOORY: Cape Girardeau?
>> FRIEDMAN: Regina in Brazil.
There's Cape Girardeau.
Who knows how many?
Uncle Sam isn't talking.
Boy, could he set
up a zoo, though.
>> NOORY: Why do
they crash, Stan?
>> FRIEDMAN: I think, I was
going to say pilot error,
human error, well, forget
the human part of that,
pilot error.
Why do our airplanes crash?
We have 747s that crash.
We've lost two shuttles,
sophisticated vehicles.
Something goes wrong,
in the case of Roswell,
we think possibly they were
going across a radar beam
and it affected their
guidance system,
for want of a better phrase, or
maybe their propulsion system.
Two objects traveling together,
you get a sudden glitch, whamo.
Because I talked
to a guy who had
been a pilot for a long time.
I said, when you have
a midair collision,
is the damage usually
the same to both craft?
And he said, no.
Usually one makes it, and
the other one goes in.
>> NOORY: The other one gets it.
>> FRIEDMAN: And we had another
crash over in the Plains of San
Agustin.
And this one
exploded, apparently.
So who knows?
It's part of the price you pay.
But if you start
looking at statistics,
you'd be surprised at how
many airplane crashes we have.
>> NOORY: Do we have a captured
alien, extraterrestrial,
put somewhere and we've got him.
>> FRIEDMAN: Well,
I think we had.
Whether we-- I've
heard enough reports
from enough people that
said probably at Los Alamos.
Why Los Alamos?
It's a very high
security facility.
All kinds of people, all kinds
of technological backgrounds
for the people, good
place to keep an alien.
You have people whose job
it is to communicate with.
Could be at Area 51.
But Los Alamos was there well
before Area 51 was there.
So you need to go someplace
now with the body.
I think we have
recovered alien bodies.
The people I've
talked to, with regard
to the Plains of San
Agustin, even Roswell.
Walter Haut, the guy who
put out the press release,
in a statement released
after his death,
indicated that he had seen
a little guy under a tarp,
not very far away.
>> NOORY: A military guy.
Why would he lie, right?
>> FRIEDMAN: No reason at all.
I mean, this was not just a PR
guy, Walter was a bombardier.
He flew 20 missions over Japan.
And he was a good
enough bombardier,
he was chosen to drop the
instrument package over one
of the two nuclear
weapons tested
in Operation Crossroads in 1946.
You pick your best people,
because if the packages isn't
in the right place,
it's a wasted test.
So high level security
clearance, real patriot,
great guy, too.
I can't imagine
why he would lie.
>> NOORY: It's an amazing story.
>> FRIEDMAN: Everybody in town
who I talk to about Walter over
a 20 year period had only
good things to say about him.
Small town, everybody
knows everybody else.
You know, that's different
than the big city.
>> NOORY: Is the
mortician still around?
>> FRIEDMAN: Glenn is--
>> NOORY: He's getting
up there in age.
>> FRIEDMAN: He's up in
age, and he is in a home.
And I was the first
to talk to him.
And no reason-- and I went
with him to the mortuary.
Found somebody there who knew
him when he worked there,
and all that sort of stuff.
And again, heard
only good things.
And we looked for certain files.
And he said, so and so,
who was here after you,
dumped a lot of files.
>> NOORY: Got rid of everything.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah.
So what are you going to do?
>> NOORY: But he was told to
have three little caskets,
or something?
>> FRIEDMAN: Well,
he asked about,
how quickly can we get
caskets, small ones?
And what should we
used to preserve a body
if we want to run tests on it?
And Glenn's solution was,
dry ice, incidentally.
It gets pretty hot in
Roswell, New Mexico,
incidentally, in the summertime.
It can get up to 110.
>> NOORY: Something happened.
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah, so he was
asked the sensible questions.
I believe his story of made
sense, under the circumstances.
And he named a nurse, most
people don't know this,
but he named a nurse
that had told him stuff.
Well, I ran a letter
in a publication
of one of these alumni
military groups, you know.
Anybody who served at this
base at this time frame.
And I heard from somebody
who had been at Roswell.
And it turned out he
was teaching science
when I finally talked to him.
And I gave him the
names of the nurses
at the base in alphabetical
order, from the year book.
Not saying anything
special about any of them.
And he remembered, oh,
she lived in Georgia.
She was dating-- he
was 18 at the time,
so he was aware of the nurses.
I gave him the name that
Glenn Dennis gave me.
Yeah, I remember her.
What did she look like?
I didn't tell him what Glenn
had said she looked like,
because that would be
just getting an echo.
He described her in
exactly the same terms.
Short, very attractive, a
few other words, dark hair,
et cetera.
I know those two guys
didn't know each other.
So that's kind of a nice
backup to Glenn's story.
>> NOORY: And the nurse
backed up what Glenn said?
>> FRIEDMAN: Well, yeah.
>> NOORY: What's this?
What did you bring us, here?
>> FRIEDMAN: You can read,
there's a word on there.
N-E-R-V-A, Nuclear Energy for
Rocket Vehicle Applications.
This is a model of one of
a number of nuclear rocket
engines that were actually
operated at the nuclear test
site.
Not far from Area 51, yes.
I worked on the program
for Westinghouse.
The engine we built, less
than 7 feet in diameter,
ours only had a power
level of 1,100 megawatts.
Los Alamos-- you
use liquid hydrogen,
there'd be a big tank up here.
Liquid hydrogen is pumped
through the reactor, which
is in here, heated
to over 4,000 degrees
and kicked out the nozzle.
Los Alamos built one, it
was a little larger, 8 feet
in diameter, The PHEBBUS,
two B. It operated
at a power level
of 4,400 megawatts,
that's twice the power of Grand
Cooley Dam, 8 feet in diameter.
This is back in the '60s.
It would not be used
as a launch vehicle.
You put it into orbit,
then you'd start up there.
And then head off toward Mars,
or the moon, or wherever.
This is back in
the '60s, mind you.
These weren't
theoretical systems.
It gets pretty hot.
And I was very happy
when we ran our tests.
We were listening in
Pittsburgh and this
was going on out in Nevada.
And the question was, how
long would the system last?
There was a limit to how
long you could run it,
because you needed
liquid hydrogen
to cool it after it shut down,
because it was radioactive.
10 minutes, 20 minutes?
And they're giving us nominal
temperature, nominal pressure,
10 minutes, 20 minutes, 30.
Hey, we're-- it went
the full 60 minutes.
It was a very joyous moment.
I had had some
experiments on it.
And I was very pleased.
>> NOORY: And what
year was that, Stan?
>> FRIEDMAN: That
would have been 1968.
>> NOORY: So now, where
are we, technologically?
>> FRIEDMAN: The program was
canceled two years later.
>> NOORY: Could there
be a Black Ops program,
a secret program going on?
>> FRIEDMAN: I suppose.
And this is just fission.
Fusion is much more exciting.
>> NOORY: Sure.
>> FRIEDMAN: H-bombs
versus atomic bomb.
But the point is,
this is reality.
This is a model.
But these things worked.
It was exciting.
And no, you didn't
have scores of people
standing around watching.
It's radioactive.
You go over there
where you're shielded.
>> NOORY: When we go back to
the moon, when we go to Mars,
what are we going to use?
>> FRIEDMAN: That's an
interesting question.
I was in a panel down in
Florida where a NASA man
told me, this was about
over 10 years ago,
told me that they
were considering
using a nuclear third stage.
This would be used
as an upper stage.
About twice the miles per
gallon, to put in simple
minded terms, as
a chemical rocket.
Two to three times as
many miles per gallon.
So he was talking about
using this as an upper stage.
What's been missing is, we
don't have a space program.
We don't have a goal.
Kennedy set a goal.
And we could achieve
subsidiary goals.
Everybody I worked with in the
Space Program back in the '60s
thought we would have a
base on the moon by now.
You didn't say they'd
be speaking Chinese.
But that's where we're heading.
Thought we would
have a base on Mars.
>> NOORY: It just stopped.
>> FRIEDMAN: A failure of will.
Worst meeting I ever
sat in on, in my life,
I was at Aerojet General.
They were working on
these same things.
And my guy, radiation
shielding, hey, Stan.
You want to go to
a NASA meeting?
Sure.
The purpose of the
meeting was to try
to decide what they wanted to
do with a nuclear rocket engine.
They didn't know what
they wanted to do, George.
And if you don't know
what you want to do,
your funding is
going to run out.
>> NOORY: In the moments
we have let, Stan,
I want to talk with
you about SETI,
Search for Extraterrestrial
Intelligence.
>> FRIEDMAN: No.
Silly Effort To
Investigate, George,
that's what S-E-T-I stands for.
>> NOORY: They are listening
for communications from ETs.
Yet they do not believe
we've been visited to date.
Isn't that contradictory?
>> FRIEDMAN: Yeah, they
won't look at the evidence.
Look, if aliens
are visiting, why
would you listen for signals?
Maybe you learn sign
language, George.
I mean, it's not
based on science.
It's wishful thinking.
We know how to send
this kind of signals.
Let's assume the
other guy is sending
the same kind of signals.
You remember that
joke about the drunk
who's looking for his
keys underneath the street
light, George?
And the cop comes over.
What are you doing?
I'm looking for my keys.
Where did you lose them?
Well, oh, down there.
That's my car.
Well, why are you looking here?
There's more light here.
I can see better.
We know how to
listen for signals.
But our first long distance
radio signal was sent in 1901.
That's what, 112 years ago?
You think aliens haven't
had a little more time
to develop a better,
more efficient system?
And besides which,
why would anybody
send a signal our
direction anyway?
Hey, we're bringing
27 guys for dinner.
Be be ready for us.
>> NOORY: Or we're
coming to take you.
>> FRIEDMAN: Or serve you,
how's that, George, for dinner.
Remember that old
science fiction program,
"Twilight Zone," yeah.
No.
SETI assumes there's
nobody coming here.
Assumes there's nobody traipsing
around between the stars.
Assumes they're stuck at our
level of technology, which
is a really incred-- I mean, I
don't use a slide rule anymore,
sorry.
Why?
You know, are they sending
AM or FM, analog or digital?
Are they sending the key
so we can interpret it?
Also, all the radio
telescopes are
on the surface of the ground.
Any advanced civilization is
going to put its communication
systems above the
atmospheres, so you
can look at the same
place out there, you know?
And they refuse to
look at the data.
Yeah, Seth Shostak
and I debated.
>> NOORY: And you won.
>> FRIEDMAN: And
I won, 57, 33, 10.
>> NOORY: People believing that
there was extraterrestrial life
already here on the planet.
Let's hear it for
Stanton Friedman,
the Father of
Modern Day Ufology.
You can check him
out on his website.
[APPLAUSE]
One of the best.
The next time you look
up into the heavens
and think for just a moment that
there are actually other living
beings living out there on
other planetary systems,
think of my buddy,
Stanton Friedman,
with a passion to get
the correct answers
to that incredible
mystery question,
are we alone in the universe?
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]